README.md, before:

Adila
=====

Adila (Advanced Device Information Library for Android) is a *Java library* for getting information about an Android device. It supports all Android versions (API 1+), requires no permissions, and does not depend on any third-party library.

Introduction
------------

Android provides developers with a [`Build`][1] class for getting information about the current build. But it does not provide a `Device` class for getting information about the device.

Adila tries to solve this by providing developers with a [`Device`](library/src/main/java/com/karimeldeeb/adila/Device.java) class. This class will try to identify the current device, at runtime, and fill the class fields with the device information (e.g. name, series) from its database.

Information
-----------

The library currently provides the following information:

- Identity (manufacturer, name, series)

Setup
-----

Gradle:

```groovy
compile 'com.karimeldeeb.adila:library:16.8.30'
compile 'com.karimeldeeb.adila:database:+'
```

Using `+` in dependencies lets you automatically pick up the latest available version. While it is generally not recommended, it is fine for this type of library since it will be updated almost daily.

**Note:** The database is included separately in case you want to use a different one, or make your own.

Usage
-----

To get information about the device, simply call any of `Device` class methods, or access any of its fields directly. *For example:*

```java
// Get the device name
String name = Device.NAME;
```

Database
--------

The database is just a Java-based (.jar) database, where each device has its own class. The classes are named using each device `Build.DEVICE` and `Build.MODEL`.

The [devices](devices.csv) database is included as a *.csv* file. This file is based on Google's list of [supported devices][2] and can be found [here][3]. The database is then converted to *.java* files using a Python [script](devices.py).

**Note:** The `devices.csv` file includes additional information that might, or might not, be used in the future.

ProGuard
--------

If you are using ProGuard with your application, you must add [proguard-adila.pro](database/proguard-adila.pro) file to `proguardFiles`. This file will stop ProGuard from removing all classes in the database.

*Example:*

```groovy
buildTypes {
    release {
        minifyEnabled true
        proguardFiles getDefaultProguardFile('proguard-android.txt'), 'proguard-adila.pro'
    }
}
```

License
-------

    Copyright (c) 2016 Karim ElDeeb

    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
    of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
    in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
    to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
    copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
    furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

    The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
    copies or substantial portions of the Software.

[1]: http://developer.android.com/reference/android/os/Build.html
[2]: http://storage.googleapis.com/play_public/supported_devices.csv
[3]: https://support.google.com/googleplay/answer/1727131

Commit message:

Split the database by API level

README.md, after:

Adila
=====

Adila (Advanced Device Information Library for Android) is a *Java library* for getting information about an Android device. It supports all Android versions (API 1+), requires no permissions, and does not depend on any third-party library.

Introduction
------------

Android provides developers with a [`Build`][1] class for getting information about the current build. But it does not provide a `Device` class for getting information about the device.

Adila tries to solve this by providing developers with a [`Device`](library/src/main/java/com/karimeldeeb/adila/Device.java) class. This class will try to identify the current device, at runtime, and fill the class fields with the device information (e.g. name, series) from its database.

Information
-----------

The library currently provides the following information:

- Identity (manufacturer, name, series)

Setup
-----

Gradle:

```groovy
compile 'com.karimeldeeb.adila:library:16.8.30'
compile 'com.karimeldeeb.adila:database:+'
```

Using `+` in dependencies lets you automatically pick up the latest available version. While it is generally not recommended, it is fine for this type of library since it will be updated frequently.

Also, instead of using the whole `database` artifact, you should use one that matches your application `minSdkVersion`. For example, if your application `minSdkVersion` is **19**, you should use `database-v19` artifact. This way, you will be using a smaller database that only includes devices supporting API level 19 or higher.

**Note:** The database is included separately in case you want to use a different one, or make your own.

Usage
-----

To get information about the device, simply call any of `Device` class methods, or access any of its fields directly. *For example:*

```java
// Get the device name
String name = Device.NAME;
```

Database
--------

The database is just a Java-based (.jar) database, where each device has its own class. The classes are named using each device `Build.DEVICE` and `Build.MODEL`.

The [devices](devices.csv) database is included as a *.csv* file. This file is based on Google's list of [supported devices][2] and can be found [here][3]. The database is then converted to *.java* files using a Python [script](devices.py).

**Note:** The `devices.csv` file includes additional information that might, or might not, be used in the future.

ProGuard
--------

If you are using ProGuard with your application, you must add [proguard-adila.pro](database/proguard-adila.pro) file to `proguardFiles`. This file will stop ProGuard from removing all classes in the database.

*Example:*

```groovy
buildTypes {
    release {
        minifyEnabled true
        proguardFiles getDefaultProguardFile('proguard-android.txt'), 'proguard-adila.pro'
    }
}
```

License
-------

    Copyright (c) 2016 Karim ElDeeb

    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
    of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
    in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
    to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
    copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
    furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

    The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
    copies or substantial portions of the Software.

[1]: http://developer.android.com/reference/android/os/Build.html
[2]: http://storage.googleapis.com/play_public/supported_devices.csv
[3]: https://support.google.com/googleplay/answer/1727131
